---
title: Overrides
description: Using overrides in `skribble-css`
layout: ../../../layouts/main-layout.astro
---

## Overrides

One problem with atomic css libraries is that css selectors that appear later in the file are given a higher priority than selectors which appear earlier.

In the css that is generated the `padding` property, added by the `p::$px` class appears before the `padding-right` property, added by the `.pr::$2` class. This is usually what is desired.

```css
.p\:\:\$px {
  padding: 1px;
}

.pr\:\:\$2 {
  padding-right: 4px;
}
```

Imagine we want to set the padding on a component.

```jsx
import { c } from 'skribble-css/client';

const OverridePadding = (props) => {
  return <div className={[c.p.$px, c.pr.$2].join(' ')}>{props.children}</div>;
};
```

The component `OverridePadding` will render correctly since the `padding-right` appears later in the css file. The div will have a `padding-right` of `4px`.

```jsx
import { c } from 'skribble-css/client';

const FailedOverridePadding = (props) => {
  return <div className={[c.pr.$2, c.p.$px].join(' ')}>{props.children}</div>;
};
```

But, as shown above, when we try to do the opposite and override the `padding-right` with the `padding` property the `div` will still have a `padding-right` of `4px`.

The best way to fix this would be to automate removal of css classes when they are overridden by a class later in the class declaration. This is provided for free by `skribble-css`.

```js
import { c, cx } from './skribble-css'; // import from generated file.

const css1 = cx([c.p.$px, c.pr.$2]) = ['p::$px', 'pr::$2'];
const css2 = cx([ c.pr.$2, c.p.$px]) = ['p::$px'];
```

In the variable `css2` the `cx` function is able to remove the `pr::$2` class from the list since it infers that the styles provided by the class name are overridden by a class later in the list.

## How it works?

`skribble-css` is aware of all the css properties that group togther other properties. For example, `padding` is equivalent to `padding-right`, `padding-top`, `padding-bottom` and `padding-left`. Any atoms and shorthands which are created in your configuration file, will be checked for properties that can be grouped together. Every property that has can override others will be added to the generated `skribble-css.js` file.

```js
import { overrides } from 'skribble-css/client';

overrides.setValues({
  p: ['px', 'py', 'pt', 'pr', 'pl', 'pb'],
  px: ['pl', 'pr'],
  py: ['pt', 'pb'],
  m: ['mx', 'my', 'mt', 'mr', 'ml', 'mb'],
  mx: ['mr', 'ml'],
  mb: ['mt', 'mb'],
  pbl: ['pbls', 'pble'],
  pin: ['pins', 'pine'],
});
```

The above file is a sample of what is autogenerated for you when the `skribble-css` generates the overrides.
